Now, earlier in the lesson, we discussed the Harris detector
which is a classic corner detector in computer vision.
Another famous classic is the Shi-Tomasi detector.
Now in a landmark paper dating back to 1994,
Shi and Tomasi they proposed a method for finding and for tracking image features.
The name of the paper was good features to track and it showed how to first locate,
and then follow a set of key points through an image sequence.
Now the detection step of Shi-Tomasi is very similar to the Harris method,
and it's also based on the eigenvalues of a gradient matrix.
Let's take a look at the following code,
where this detector, the Shi-Tomasi detector has been implemented.
So let's take a look at the Shi-Tomasi detected here.
Now, what we are doing as the first step is to load
the image from file and then instead of loading the grayscale version,
here we are loading the color version which you saw in the last example.
I am now converting it into grayscale by using a function from the Open CV,
which is called convert color.
Convert color takes as an input argument,
the color image which you want to convert.
Img gray is the target image which is going to hold the output,
and this key here tells the system that the input image is of BGR4,
that's blue, green and red and the output should be monochromatic, that's grayscale.
Now, if you want to investigate how color conversion works,
it's not simply either select the blue or gray or red channel,
but it's a carefully weighed mixture of all the color channels
which considers the fact that the green channel is present twice.
If you'll recall the buyer pattern which we took a look at in the previous lesson,
around each overreach pixel there's an array of color filters.
We have blue one time,
we have red one time,
and we have green two times to make the pattern rectangular.
So green is present twice,
whereas the other pixels are only present once.
That means that when you convert a color image into a grayscale,
you have to take this into
consideration when computing this merge between all the different colors.
So look it up, it's quite interesting how this is done in the open city.
Now the next thing which happens is the Shi-Tomasi detector is executed.
This actually happens down here in this line 167,
the function is called good features to track,
and the stuff before is preparing the different parameters.
But let's take a look at this row here first.
Good features to track takes as input argument,
the grayscale image which I just talked about.
This is the output data structure,
its corners and corners is defined here.
It's a vector of an open CV data structure which is called Point2f.
2f stands for two-dimensional data structure of type float.
So we get x and y,
position for a corner,
and this is the output.
Then we have Max corners,
and this is the one which I'd like to point out first.
Max corners tells the algorithm what should be
the maximum amount of columns it should output in the corner vector.
It could be less, but if it's more it cuts
the rest and only gives you a vector of size max corners.
In order to prepare this variable carefully,
I am proposing the following.
Let's jump back to line 157.
Here I'm defining a variable which is called max overlap.
The idea is to look at the block size
which is basically the size of the neighborhood around key point,
and to ensure that a maximum overlap between two neighboring key points is not exceeded.
So if I tell the system
the maximum permissible overlap is zero percent as it's done right now,
then the system says okay,
if the block around two key points is in some way overlapping,
we're going to select only one key point from the two.
If the two key points are
significantly far apart and there is no overlap between the block sizes around them,
then we can take both key points.
By saying maximum overlap of zero percent,
I can now compute the minimum distance between two key points,
which in this case is the block size itself.
So if I allow for an overlap,
what we have here is we have a small overlap between,
let's say 25 percent between neighboring blocks,
and this would lead to the minimum distance between two key points being
set to 75 percent of the block size.
Okay. That's mean distance.
Now Max corners then is basically the amount of
pixels in the image which is IMG rows times IMG calls,
divided by the maximum between one and the minimum distance.
This maximum operation here is for safety reasons that you don't get a division by zero.
So, this is what's happening here.